Always allowed Jehovah to direct your steps as a theme brother Jeffrey Jackson a member of the governing body
We'll now share with us
Well, it's a real privilege and pleasure for me to stand before you again
It just seems like a few days ago when I had the privilege of giving you the first lecture
That I give you a gillian and now here it is you're very special day of graduation
Before you go on to your assignments after graduation
We'd like to leave you with a question
Are you willing to allow Jehovah to direct your steps?
Now we all know how you're going to answer
Because we know that you've been willing to allow Jehovah to direct your steps right up to this moment
That's why you dedicated yourselves to Jehovah
Why you ended full-time service, special full-time service, and that's why you're here having attended gillian
And that's why we love you and we're proud of you because you are willing to allow Jehovah to direct your steps
But you know, perhaps it seems a little presumptuous on our part to ask the question about are we willing to allow Jehovah to do anything?
Well the reason behind that question is of course that Jehovah doesn't force himself on us
It doesn't automatically happen that Jehovah directs our steps
In fact, something is required of us and this in a sense allows Jehovah to work with us
Let's have a look in our Bibles at an interesting scripture in the book of Psalms
It's Psalm 37, a section of scripture that we all use over and over again in the service
But this time we're going to look at verse 23, Psalm 37 verse 23
Jehovah guides the steps of a man when he finds pleasure in his way
Now if you were just listening to that and you didn't have a printed or electronic copy in front of you
It would be easy to misunderstand this verse
Why?
Well if you hear it read, when he finds pleasure in his way, you naturally assume when the man finds pleasure in Jehovah's way
But you notice a new world translation capitalizes the he
When he finds pleasure in his way
So now if we were to substitute the pronouns there, what does it really say?
Jehovah guides the steps of a man when Jehovah finds pleasure in the man's way
Isn't that an interesting concept?
So for us to have our steps guided by Jehovah
We have to do things that bring pleasure to Jehovah and when Jehovah finds pleasure in our way
Then he directs our steps
Isn't that a profound thought?
So in that way once we do things in accordance with Jehovah's will
It's as if we figuratively allowed Jehovah to direct our steps
Now that doesn't come automatically just because we pray to Jehovah, please direct my steps
Let's think of two examples from the Scriptures
Two negative examples that help us in this regard
First of all, let's think about Balam
Now remember this is in the 15th century BCE
When the Israelites were about to go into the Promised Land
The Moabites were very worried about it
Balam was a man who had some connection to the worship of Jehovah
And now all of a sudden these messengers come to Balam
And they ask him to curse God's people
And do you remember what happened? What did Balam do?
He didn't automatically answer, did he?
He said, wait here overnight I want to hear from Jehovah
And what did Jehovah say to him?
Basically, don't go
Now that's not hard to understand isn't it?
Don't go, it's simple, you don't need a lawyer to try and work out what that means
But then what happened? Well the pressure intensified, didn't it?
And more messengers came, this time princes and more offers of material gain
Now what did Balam do? Well he had clearly heard Jehovah's direction, don't go
But what did he do? Well you see his heart was already leaning in a certain direction
So he was hoping this would change a little
So he said, well let's just wait and see what Jehovah says
Now this time what did Jehovah say?
Go but don't say anything I don't tell you to say
In other words, I'll only say what I tell you
Now was this because Jehovah was directing Balam's step?
Or was it because he allowed Balam to go his own way?
Well we see what happened three times, resistance
But then what happened? Well notice if we turn across to numbers 22
We hear a very clear statement, in fact Nellie is clear as the statement, don't go
Numbers 22, 32
Then Jehovah's angel said to him, why have you beaten your donkey these three times?
Look, I myself came out to offer resistance because your way is in defiance of my will
So then we see the answer, don't we? It wasn't Jehovah directing his steps
Jehovah was resisting what he was doing
So what do we learn from this?
Well even though Balam initially wanted to get Jehovah's direction
Jehovah didn't force himself on Balam
And when Balam was determined to go down a certain course
Yes, Jehovah gave him signals of don't go again, don't go
But Jehovah allowed him to go and of course eventually he ended up dying because of that
And of course many others died because of that as well
So what's the lesson for us? Well sometimes we may feel that at a certain point in our life
We say Jehovah, what do you want me to do? What's your will?
And that's good that we pray that Jehovah that way
But what do we need to do? We need to do what Jehovah wants us to do
Then when he finds pleasure in what we're doing, he directs our step
So that's a good lesson isn't it?
The second example we want to use is of the unnamed prophet
Do you remember the one that's mentioned in 1 Kings chapter 13
Who was instructed to go up to Israel and to utter a pronouncement there to King Jehovah
Now remember the instructions, again Jehovah gave him
Go up one way, come back the other way
Don't eat or drink
Even when the king said come and eat and drink what is on him
I know what you have wants me to do
But then what happened?
Although he was doing very well up to that point
Remember the old prophet tricked him by saying, oh don't worry
An angel spoke to me and said it's okay
What did the unnamed prophet say?
Let me check with Jehovah again, I mean he did actually tell me
Okay, let's see
Well, again it resulted in disaster didn't it?
What's the lesson we learned there?
Well, although he'd started a course that was allowing Jehovah to direct his steps
He didn't continue to follow the direction that Jehovah had given him
Now that's a good lesson for us too isn't it?
We may do the same
There could be friends, could even be people we respect
They give us advice contrary to what Jehovah is telling us
And that could also lead to disaster
What would have helped in both those situations?
Well, I'd like to read you a quote from the watch tab
Back in 1950 before any of you were ever born
And incidentally before I was born too
But I'm sure brother heard read it
Anyway, the quote says
It is far better to take a few moments for quiet reflection
Fully considering God's requirements before rushing into an action
That might bring God's reproof
Let me read it again
It is far better to take a few moments for quiet reflection
Fully considering God's requirements before rushing into an action that might bring God's reproof
So how could we summarize that in a nice little expression?
Well, we could say don't rush in
Pause, ponder, pray, and prove
Prove to yourself what Jehovah really wants you to do
So with that in mind as you go to your assignments
You're going to find all sorts of challenges
But how can you apply this principle of
Don't rush in
Pause, ponder, pray, and prove to yourself what Jehovah wants
Well, let's consider three different circumstances
So we always want to allow Jehovah to direct our steps
When we're excited about something
Excited we want to get in and do something
Now let's take for example Jacob
We all remember he describes this in the scriptures
How he felt when he was told that his son Joseph supposedly had died
He was grief-stricken
And for years he was left with that impression that his son was dead
Now can you imagine, just try to imagine the joy that he would have felt
When all of a sudden his son's returned back from Egypt
There's wagons, I mean not just your average wagons
I'm sure they were pretty fancy wagons
They're coming to pick him up, he finds out Joseph is alive
Not only that, he's in Egypt, he's got a very high position there
How do you think, do you think excited is the word?
Of course, he was extremely excited and overjoyed
So he left Hebron, went down to Beashiva
But what did he do before he left the Promised Land to go into Egypt?
Well, let's have a look at Genesis chapter 46
Genesis chapter 46 and we'll read verse 1 through 4
So Israel or Jacob took all that he had and departed
When he arrived at Beashiva, he offered sacrifices to God
You see, he stopped, he paused, he pondered
Yes, verse 2, then God spoke to Israel in a vision by night and said
Jacob, Jacob to which he said, here I am
He said, I am the true God, the God of your Father
Do not be afraid to go down to Egypt
For there I will make you into a great nation
I myself will go down with you to Egypt and I myself will also bring you back from there
And Joseph will lay his hand on your eyes
Do you see what happened?
You see, he stopped, he paused, he pondered
He wanted to prove to himself what Jehovah wanted
And Jehovah gave him the go ahead, he had Jehovah's blessing
And we know how that turned out
So do we see the lesson for us?
Perhaps at times we get all excited about something
It appears good, it appears that we should do it
What should we do?
Pause, ponder, pray, improve to yourself
That that's really what Jehovah wants you to do
Now let's think of a second example
Imagine the time when the Israelites were entering the Promised Land
Or about to conquer the land
How exciting it must have been to them
They were busy with an assignment that Jehovah had given them
But still, even if we are in the middle of an assignment
We have to pause, ponder, pray, improve to ourselves
What Jehovah wants us to do
For example, in Joshua chapter 8
When we look there, you'll notice we won't read it
But they were able to capture Jericho
Then AI, there was a problem, wasn't it?
They had to sort that out
They went back, they were able to defeat the inhabitants of AI
What did they do next?
You see, here they are, poised to conquer the whole Promised Land
They went up to Mount Ebo, not Mount Ebo
Just so we got that right
They went up to Mount Ebo
And what did they do?
They paused, pondered, prayed, and proved to themselves what Jehovah wanted them to do
They read the whole law
Yes, they stopped the military campaign
Took time to make sure what Jehovah wanted them to do
And then they went ahead to complete that military campaign
So again, what lesson for us?
You've received many assignments, you will receive more assignments in the future
But just because you're in the middle of an assignment, you've started
Doesn't mean to say that you'll continue to allow Jehovah to direct your steps
You have to pause, ponder, pray, and prove to yourself what Jehovah wants
Now the third situation as a reminder
We still need to be extra careful to allow Jehovah to direct our steps when we have special privileges
You see, it's very easy for us to think, well, now I've been to Gilead
I can probably miss a few meetings for a few months anyway
I've got a bit of spiritual fat
You see, all those other brothers, they need to go to the meetings
But I've got plenty to keep me going for a while
Really?
Well, we have an example in the scriptures to help us in that regard
Let's look at Luke chapter 2
And this, of course, is the account dealing with Joseph and Mary
Enter Jesus' birth
So Luke chapter 2 verses 22 through 24
There it says, also when the time came for purifying them according to the Lord of Moses
They brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to Jehovah
Just as it is written in Jehovah's law, every firstborn male must be called holy to Jehovah
And they offer the sacrifice according to what is said in the Lord of Jehovah, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons
So what happened here? When?
Well, remember this was 40 days after Jesus' birth, Mary needed to go to the temple to purify herself according to the law
And we notice verse 22 and 24 refers to that, the law says to do that
But verse 23, what's that referring to?
You see, if you look at the marginal reference where this is taken from
It's not talking about the purification of Mary
What is it talking about?
Well, possibly it's talking about where the man, the husband, would have to present the child to Jehovah and pay the five shekels
And acknowledge that this child was his
So if that's the case, that means both Joseph and Mary took the time to go and make these presentations
Joseph was supposed to do that after 30 days after Jesus' birth or sometime thereafter
But whatever the case, what do we learn from this?
See, Joseph and Mary didn't say, well, you know, we had an angel come to visit us
And this child is very, very, very special
And remember when he was born, the shepherds came, the heavens were filled with angels
Surely we shouldn't have to go and pay the five shekels and offer up the birds
They didn't do that, did they?
They didn't use the special privilege they had as an excuse not to do what Jehovah had instructed them to do
Do we see the lesson for us?
You see, if that was the case with them, what about us?
It doesn't matter what privileges we have, we still have to do the basic things
We can't use our privileges as an excuse not to do those things
Things such as daily Bible reading, prayer, meeting attendance, the witnessing work, and so on
So yes, we need to make sure that we don't allow those things to, as it were, give us an excuse to not do what Jehovah wants us to do
Well, when we think about it, how could we summarize what we personally need to do to make sure that we allowed Jehovah to direct our step?
Well, the last scripture I'd like to share with you is in the book of Proverbs
Proverbs chapter 23 and verse 19
Proverbs 23 verse 19
Listen by Son and become wise and direct your heart in the right way
So what do we need to do?
We need to direct our heart in the right way and when we go in the right way, what happens?
Jehovah then favors us, he's happy with us and then what does he do?
He directs our steps
So it's all very exciting, you're going to your assignments soon, we wish you Jehovah's rich blessing
And we know that you will succeed with Jehovah's help
But also remember, it doesn't matter what situation you face
You're excited about something, you're right in the middle of an assignment, or perhaps you have special privileges
What do you need to do?
Pause, ponder, pray and prove to yourself what Jehovah wants
If you do that, we know you will always allow Jehovah to guide your steps
Now we'll have our presentation of diplomas
First we have brother and sister Akmatov, who will be returning to Krigastatin
And now we have brother and sister Arancivia, who will be returning to the United States
Brother and sister Boa will be returning to Benin
Next, we have brother Bociowski, who will be returning to Canada
And we have sister Galashina, who will be returning to Eastern Europe
And this is our singer, brother Havab will be returning to the Philippines
Brother and sister Jakob will be returning to Germany
Brother and sister Katalini will be returning to Croatia
Next, we have sister Kong, who will be returning to the United States
And now we have brother and sister Komaromi, who will be returning to Serbia
Brother and sister Kumangaée, we will be returning to Japan
And now we have brother and sister Maganyah, who will be returning to Brazil
Brother and sister Mafumole will be returning to Zimbabwe
Brother and sister Marina Vitch will be returning to Ukraine
And next, we have Brother and Sister Missongo
will be returning to South Africa.
And now we have Brother and Sister Dong Wu
will be returning to Kenya.
Brother and Sister Nishikura will be returning to Asia.
And we have Brother Ogele will be returning to Nigeria.
Brother and Sister Watchome will be returning to Cameroon.
Brother and Sister Pereira will be returning to Sri Lanka.
And we have Sister Pangej Vili, who will be returning to Georgia.
Sister Pryogo, who will be returning to Indonesia.
Brother Reba, who will be returning to South Africa.
Brother Sableinan, who will be returning to Finland.
And brother and sister Shirea, who will be returning to France.
Brother and sister Stan Kovic, who will be returning to Hungary.
Brother Toly, who will be returning to Sierra Leone.
Brother and sister Vasilyev, will be returning to Eastern Europe.
And finally, brother and sister Weiss, will be returning to Congo Kinshasa.
invite brother Nelson Ogalli, who will be returning to Nigeria.
But he's going to read the class letter to us.
September 9, 2017.
Do the governing body and the Beth of family, dear brothers.
At Psalm 25, verse 12 and 13, David wrote,
Who is the man fearing Jehovah?
He will instruct him about the way he should choose.
He will experience what is good.
The instructions we have received at Jehovah's Hand over the past five months
as far as surpassed our expectation.
Indeed, our hearts have been filled with so many good things.
When we started our training, Bible verses were like many isolated dots on a canvas.
We have been taught how to connect them,
reveal in a marvelous picture.
Moreover, we have learned how to work with Jehovah even more closely.
We have also been taught how to display the mind of Christ more fully,
especially by imitating His love when dealing with our brothers and sisters.
Like Paul, we ask.
Well, then, are we to say about these things?
We have mixed feelings, deep gratitude,
and a sense of insignificance of awareness.
Gratitude to you, members of the governing body,
for your loving and honest counsel,
gratitude to you, our dear instructors,
for your tireless efforts to reach and touch our hearts,
and gratitude to you,
the members of the Bethlehem family.
We will never forget your warm welcome
and the way you included us in your family.
On the other hand, we're feeling significant in view of the greatness of Jehovah's organization,
and significant as we begin to understand the depth of God's Word,
insignificant in view of the immense task ahead of us
as we strive to apply all that we have learned.
Furthermore, stay in our patricin for 20 weeks,
allowed us to feel the pose of the earthly part of Jehovah's organization.
We have enjoyed the willing spirit of the many young ones,
and the wonderful example of faithful service
of our older brothers and sisters.
We're working with you.
We realized how much is accomplished behind the scenes,
and we were deeply touched when we personally saw how the governing body
genuinely cares for our dear brothers and sisters all over the world,
and especially now in Russia.
However, these are more than just mere memories.
It is a turning point in our lives.
We understand that the biggest test is still ahead of us.
Whatever Simon comes our way, we are determined to do our very best
for Jehovah's glory and the benefit of his organization.
Yes, it is the blessing of Jehovah that makes one reach.
We have been enriched by making new lifelong friends,
and by the wonderful heritage received at Gillette.
It is now our wish and pleasure to share these blessings with others in our assignments.
Your brothers and sisters, the 143th class of Giliate.
It was definitely brought home to us today that Jehovah is our grand instructor.
There's none like him in the entire universe.
He's so patient with us and so kind and so merciful,
and the definitely so loving.
He's been good to us today, and he's going to be good for us forever.
So we're just getting started.
We're crawling, but one of these days we'll get up and we'll walk and we'll run.
Jehovah ranks the highest. He was teaching not just you, but all of us today.
None of us as sinful humans could say our speak the words that touched our hearts
without the help of Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
And there's not a brother to that, does not ask for that spirit, our sister,
who steps out here before God's sheep, and gives any kind of encouragement or instruction.
Jesus gave us the promise of John 1926.
And this is what he said, those of you who have your pads, you're already there.
I'm just getting there. That's the 1426, John.
He says, but to help her, the Holy Spirit, which the Father will send in my name,
that one will teach you all things and bring back to your minds, all the things I told you.
So the Holy Spirit is going to help you remember,
without it you couldn't remember, but we pray for the Holy Spirit,
and it's sent to us, and we remember.
Sometimes we're shocked at how much we can remember at a given time.
Well, it's not us, somebody's helping us to remember.
And we must never forget that.
That promised that Jesus gave way back then,
held true, not only for Jesus' disciples, back then, who loved him very much,
but it holds true today for those who love him as we do.
And we definitely love him. There's just no doubt in our minds about him.
The love that we have in our hearts for Jehovah God and Jesus is there.
Jehovah opens our minds and hearts to receive His Word.
Just think of the things that we've heard from this platform today.
Things that touched the heart,
warmed the soul.
Jehovah was with us today, and by the means of His Holy Spirit.
Of course, this happened years ago to a worshiper of Jehovah.
It wasn't a male, it was a female.
In Acts chapter 16, verse 14, we find His Lydia.
It reads, and a certain woman named Lydia,
a cellar purple of the city of Thyatira,
and a worshiper of God was listening, and Jehovah opened her heart wide
to pay attention to the things being spoken by Paul.
When Jehovah speaks and he opens our hearts,
we must not close our hearts by failing to pay attention to the brother that is Jehovah
is using to speak through.
If we're not careful, we just may close to that brother
because his tie is not straight.
His shoes are not shined, that's dangerous.
We want to listen to him, Jehovah put him up there,
and we want to listen to what he has to say.
Don't be so concerned with the way he looks.
If someone was concerned with the way a donkey looked, he wouldn't have paid any attention
years ago because Jehovah spoke to the donkey.
Donkeys are not most beautiful animal, but Jehovah chooses what Jehovah wants to choose,
and he teaches lessons for each and every one of us.
Now, of course, when Lydia was opening her heart,
like Jehovah's hell, she's looking at Paul, but Paul may not have been the most handsome man to
look at. We don't really know. Some say that his eyebrows matched.
Others say he couldn't see good. Some say he was bald-headed.
We don't really know. One of these days, we'll know. Well, you're no longer Gilead students.
You're ex-Gilead students, but may you never become ex-students of Jehovah, your grand instructor.
They didn't give me too many minutes, you know, to talk to you. That's all the time I've got.
Isn't this a beautiful group, though?